## Real-World Data for Impact

The  “spirit” of the [Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of 2018](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/4174), for which the OPEN Government Data Act is Title II, is to ask and answer questions (build evidence) to support policymaking. HHS intends to collect, use, and acquire data to apply it in ways for the betterment of the nation. This includes rigorous application of the scientific method to test scientific hypotheses, while following the data wherever the data lead. HHS, like all Federal government, should use data to maximize the impact of science, programs, and services for the common good.  

Real-world data (RWD[^68]) and real-world evidence (RWE[^69]) align with HHS Open Data values and goals to drive healthcare innovation, transparency, and improved outcomes. HHS promotes open access to and interoperability of RWD, using data-sharing and access methods compliant with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 that applies to information from electronic health records, insurance claims, and patient registries.  

> Real-World Data provides a foundation for a “Learning Health System” that can rapidly adapt to changing circumstances, emergent diseases, and enable learning from the treatment of patients to inform others with the same condition.

[^68]: <https://www.hhs.gov/press-room/nih-cms-partner-to-research-root-causes-of-autism.html> 
[^69]: <https://www.fda.gov/science-research/science-and-research-special-topics/real-world-evidence> 

This real-world approach enables diverse stakeholders, such as regulators and payers, to gain insights from routine clinical care—and provides a foundation for a “Learning Health System” that can rapidly adapt to changing circumstances, emergent diseases, and enable learning from the treatment of patients to inform others with the same condition. By adopting “open by default,” while safeguarding individual privacy, HHS aims to leverage high-quality RWD/RWE, clinical evidence regarding the usage—and potential benefits or risks—of a medical product derived from analysis of RWD/RWE. Such interdisciplinary analyses and results will inform regulatory decisions, evaluate treatments, and accelerate effective care delivery, supporting evidence-based policymaking and patient-centered healthcare.  

At the core of the Living HHS Open Data Plan for RWD lies the concept that data is a “public utility” for good that powers scientific advancement, innovation, and progress. Public utilities exist because the community has recognized that the service or product they provide is essential to the life and health of Americans. In today’s world, the public needs access to healthcare and public health data, which allows individuals to take control of their own health and allows aggregate, anonymized, deidentified data to be leveraged for innovation.  

At the core of the Living HHS Open Data Plan for RWD lies the concept that data is a “public utility” for good that powers scientific advancement, innovation, and progress. Public utilities exist because the community has recognized that the service or product they provide is essential to the life and health of Americans. In today’s world, the public needs access to healthcare and public health data, which allows individuals to take control of their own health and allows aggregate, anonymized, deidentified data to be leveraged for innovation.  

HHS supports public and private partnerships for data utility models that increase data access for public consumers, including patients, providers, payers, state agencies, and researchers. The health utility concept is emerging today based on lessons learned from early gains by Health Information Exchanges (HIEs), and by expanding the role of HIEs into a public utility or Health Data Utilities (HDUs). HIEs have provided critical and timely patient data to aid in treatment across health care providers, but new governance models will be necessary to empower patients and ensure HHS transparency, accountability, and responsiveness to citizen prioritizes and real-world needs.  

> [HHS GitHub — Open Data in Action](https://hhs.github.io/lodp-form)  
> <https://hhs.github.io/lodp-form>  
> Highlight public-private partnerships, collaborations, or cross-sector initiatives powered by HHS Open Data that deliver measurable impact and deserve inclusion in future versions of the Living Plan.

The on-going HIEs evolution into HDUs is opportunity for the HHS CDO and partners to pilot novel data governance methods and pioneer new approaches to interoperability. This progress with HIEs is informative and important, yet alone it is not sufficient to enable a nationwide learning health system. The CDO expects to pilot novel data governance models with industry, academia, non-profit organizations, and all sectors—including individuals with lived experiences, like patients and caregivers, as partners—to co-create new modes of data governance in collaboration with HHS.  

In a learning health system, cancer treatment may improve as clinicians can find other patients with similar tumor characteristics, especially genomically similar tumors, and enable clinicians to learn what treatments are or are not effective, enabling better and more tailored treatment with the right interventions, earlier in the course of the disease. Similar use cases for the health public utility exist for rare disease treatment; with sufficient data, the health public utility can support much more rapid diagnosis and treatment. Beyond the learning health system, such a public utility for health data provides the foundation for improved bio-surveillance, detection and analysis of adverse events from drugs, devices and biologics, as well as for research. In some respects, more importantly, such a public utility supports radical transparency for patients, both in terms of expanding comprehensive access to their medical history and for the ability of the public to understand how their data is being used, by whom and to understand the benefits from that use of their data.  

A public utility model for good and radical transparency relies on a Patient Trust Model. This model refers to the relationship between patients and their healthcare organizations regarding their health information. Providing patients influence and power over their information and data and allowing for deeper permissioning of their data through a health data utility creates the necessary components for a learning health system. Key elements of the Patient Trust Model include data security and privacy, transparency and engagement, patient empowerment, and return of results to improve healthcare, which is a goal for a learning health system. In some ways this concept is similar to Brazil's patient data model that is governed by the Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados (LGPD)[^70]. The LGPD grants patients access control over their data including data sharing and transparency on data use.  

[^70]: Brazil General Data Protection Law (LGPD), Law No. 13.709/2018 <https://iapp.org/resources/article/brazilian-data-protection-law-lgpd-english-translation/>

The health data utility model can also work to empower patients to take control of their own data, share it selectively with their clinical care team, and if willing, to opt in to specific research studies.  

- **Standards**: HHS supports divisions to develop specific RWD standards, for example to meet a regulatory requirement. RWD should meet the three accepted metadata standards currently handled by [Data.gov](https://data.gov/) and used by [HealthData.gov](https://healthdata.gov/) with DCAT-US 3.0 updates in progress. Standards are needed to facilitate the interoperability of data required to integrate disparate data sources; for example, it is likely that the emerging market pattern of HIEs becoming state-based HDUs, will continue necessitating a federated or partially federated approach to a national HDU network.  
- **Fit for purpose**: HHS Divisions must ensure they have clear policies for evaluating and communicating the fitness-for-purpose, or sometimes called “fit for use”, of RWD made available to the public. HHS Divisions should supply adequate documentation for each released RWD to help users assess whether the data is suitable for their intended use. Practices may include creating a standard template or framework that offers users the necessary context and details and creation of mechanisms for transparent use of data and patient consent perhaps using an immutable ledger such as Blockchain.  
- **Terms of Use**: RWD in the HHS ecosystem is open by default and should align with the privacy policy, data policy, and accessibility terms at [Data.gov](https://data.gov/). When acquiring data, HHS Divisions are encouraged to use template data use agreements or terms of use (interoperable with the DGB and CDO Council templates), to the extent practicable, to minimize administrative burden. HHS Divisions should consider multiple approaches to acquisitions and collection of data, including incorporating data agreements in the contracting or grant terms, and not in separate agreements. This can multiply the impact of HHS funding, by ensuring that federally funded research results, science publications, and data are freely available to the public as a common good with HHS Open Data.

### Completed RWD Projects Advancing HHS Open Data

- FDA has a long history of using RWD and RWE to monitor and evaluate the post-market safety of authorized medical products. Advances in the availability and analysis of RWD have increased the potential for generating robust RWE to support regulatory decisions.  
- Completed FDA initiatives recently focused on advancing the use of RWD and RWE in regulatory decision-making and on informing healthcare policy. FDA finalized guidance documents on use of RWE (including electronic health records (EHRs), medical claims data and registries) to support regulatory decisions for biologics, devices, and drugs. Recent FDA initiatives also cover study design considerations, and procedural and regulatory requirements.  
- CMS released an updated guidance document in 2024 that describes coverage with evidence development (CED).  
- CDC Data Channels exemplify open data principles by integrating diverse data sources into user-friendly visualizations and plain language interpretations. These channels empower the public with clear insights into issues related to infectious diseases, like [respiratory illnesses](https://www.cdc.gov/respiratory-viruses/data/index.html), as well as other important health topics, such as [mental health](https://www.cdc.gov/mental-health/about-data/index.html).  
- CDC’s Office of Public Health Data, Surveillance, and Technology has a dedicated team of data journalists, designers, and data experts that collaborate with CDC programs and emergency responses to design these channels, ensuring creation of audience-specific material and timely updates. Underlying data sources are made available at [data.cdc.gov](https://data.cdc.gov/), enhancing transparency and enabling data reuse.  
- CDC makes multiple other online data tools available to users. This includes [CDC WONDER](https://wonder.cdc.gov/) where users can create custom queries of vital records and other key public health data, providing them with up-to-date detailed information on health outcomes such as causes of death. By tailoring content and access points for various audiences, CDC enhances communication on urgent public health threats and accessibility to data to foster engagement and trust with the public.

### Ongoing RWD Initiatives Advancing HHS Open Data

- The Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H) is conducting market research for potential procurements for real world health care data and related services.  
- With participation from multiple HHS divisions, the National Academy of Medicine has ongoing studies and convenings relating to the Learning Health System and Public Utility model and plan to issues reports and recommendations in the next year.  
- The NIH is planning for the development of a RWD research platform to support research generally with initial focus on the causes of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Existing infrastructure (e.g., National Clinical Cohort Collaborative [N3C]) will be leveraged and will also benefit other data-driven priorities like understanding nutrition for health, chronic diseases, environmental toxin exposures, and the benefits of healthy lifestyles.  
- NIH/NCATS Open Data Portal was created to share and visualize data in real time to accelerate discover and guide the exploration of new therapeutic hypotheses. Open Data Portal is built to quickly pivot and share data for emerging public health needs and is expanding to include data for other diseases.  
- FDA is committed to realizing the full potential of fit-for-purpose RWD to generate RWE that will advance the development of medical products and strengthen regulatory oversight of medical products across their lifecycle.

[Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
