## Appendix A: Acronyms, Definitions, Keywords, and Concepts

### Acronyms

**Administration for Health America** (AHA, formerly the HHS Office of the Secretary)  
**Administration for Children and Families** (ACF)  
**Administration for Community Living** (ACL)  
**Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health** (ARPA-H)  
**Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response** (ASPR)  
**Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality** (AHRQ)  
**Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry** (ATSDR)  
**Artificial Intelligence** (AI)  
**Authority to Operate** (ATO)  
**Centers for Disease Control and Prevention** (CDC)  
**Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services** (CMS)  
**Food and Drug Administration** (FDA)  
**Health Resources and Services Administration** (HRSA)  
**Immediate Office of the Secretary** (IOS)  
**Indian Health Service** (IHS)  
**Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration** (ASA)  
**Office of the Assistant Secretary for Financial Resources** (ASFR)  
**Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health** (OASH)  
**Office of the Assistant Secretary for Legislation** (ASL)  
**Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation** (ASPE)  
**Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response** (ASPR)  
**Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs** (ASPA)  
**Office for Civil Rights** (OCR)  
**Office of the General Counsel** (OGC)  
**Office of Global Affairs** (OGA)  
**Office of Inspector General** (OIG)  
**Office of Intergovernmental and External Affairs** (IEA)  
**Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology** (ONC)  
**National Institutes of Health** (NIH)  
**Return on Investment** (ROI)  
**Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration** (SAMHSA)  

### Definitions, Keywords, and Concepts

**Accuracy** refers to how well data reflects reality, ensuring it’s corrected and free from errors.  

**Agile Methods** are a set of project management and software development approaches that emphasize flexibility, collaboration and iterative development.  

**Availability** means data is accessible when needed.  

**CDC’s Core Data Use Agreement (DUA)** initiative focuses on enhancing data use and sharing agreements with public health jurisdictions across states, tribes, localities, 
and territories. On December 1, 2023, CDC adopted a new approach, introducing a "Core DUA" that unifies and enhances national data exchange. Following recommendations from 
the Advisory Committee to the Director (ACD) Data and Surveillance Workgroup, CDC is implementing a single agreement formalizing agency-to-agency data-sharing relationships. 
(<https://www.cdc.gov/data-interoperability/php/use-agreement/index.html>)

**Completeness** signifies all required information is present.  

**Consistency** means data is uniform across different sources and systems.  

**Enterprise Platform** refers to a standardized technology framework used by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to manage and integrate various systems and 
data across its agencies.  

**FDA Terms of Use** offers some of its public data in machine-readable format through openFDA, a service located at <https://open.fda.gov>. Use of the data made available 
via openFDA is generally unrestricted (see “[Data Rights and Usage](https://open.fda.gov/terms/)”). However, the service through which FDA makes that data available is
offered subject to your acceptance of the terms and conditions contained herein as well as any relevant sections of the FDA Website Policies.  

**HHS Data Inventory** is an individual data asset (metadata catalog) generated by the HHS Data Hub, which is part OCDO’s existing authority to operate (ATO) for HHS 
Connect. The HHS Data Inventory will promote the reuse of existing data and eliminate the duplicate effort to produce and store the same data multiple times. The HHS Data 
Inventory will break down existing information silos, encourage information sharing, eliminate duplication and inefficiency, and increase the American taxpayers’ ROI on 
existing IT investments.  

**HHS Open Data Plan** is a document published under the authority of Title II of the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of 2018 (OPEN Government Data Act). 
This living plan is not intended to be comprehensive of all data-related work being done at HHS. This information is additive to currently active work and intend to further 
boost HHS' progress in leveraging data in support of its mission.  

**HHS Connect Terms and Conditions (formerly HHS DUA builder)** looks to simplify the way data is shared. The Terms and Conditions in HHS Connect will ask a series of 
questions to understand the data being shared and by whom and by what terms and conditions. It will generate the document based on the answers provided and trigger the 
electronic signatures for the agreement. The terms and agreements are stored in the repository based on the type of agreement generated. The agreements are searchable in 
the repository.  

**Human-centered design (HCD)** is a design philosophy and process that prioritizes the needs, desires, and limitations of the end-users throughout the entire design process. 

**Living Document** is a document that is designed to be continually updated and revised, reflecting new information, changing circumstances, or evolving needs. It's not 
meant to be static or fixed, but rather to adapt and remain relevant over time.  

**Open Data** refers to information or content that is freely available for anyone to use, re-use, and redistribute, without restrictions. It's data that is accessible, 
machine-readable, and provided in open formats, often under an open license.  

**Open Government** is transparent, participatory, and collaborative. Transparency means sharing data and information. Participation means hearing and implementing ideas 
from many kinds of people and organizations. Collaboration means engaging in ongoing conversation with employees and the public and working together to solve problems. 
Doing these things not only increases our own accountability but also build trust with the American people.  

**Open Innovation** a collaborative approach where government agencies actively seek ideas, expertise, and resources from outside their traditional boundaries, including 
citizens, businesses, and academia, to address public challenges and improve government services.  

**Open Science** refers to the principle and practice of making research outputs and processes available to all, while prioritizing security, privacy, and fostering 
collaboration.  

**Open Source Code** refers to software code that is publicly available for anyone to use, modify, and distribute, often under specific licensing terms. Open-source code 
fosters collaboration, transparency, and innovation across agencies and with the public.  

**Real-world data (RWD)** are data relating to patient health status and/or the delivery of health care routinely collected from a variety of sources. Examples of RWD 
include data derived from electronic health records, medical claims data, data from product or disease registries, and data gathered from other sources (such as digital 
health technologies) that can inform on health status.  

**Real-world evidence (RWE)** is the clinical evidence about the usage and potential benefits or risks of a medical product derived from analysis of RWD.  

**Timeliness** indicates data is up-to-date and relevant for its intended purpose.  

**Usefulness** describes data’s applicability and relevance to problem-solving and decision-making.  

**Version** (version control) is a system that tracks and manages changes to a document like the Living HHS Open Data Plan over time.

[Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
