## Appendix B: Novel Models of Data Governance: Inspired by Tribal Data Governance for Radical, Collective, Self-Governance

HHS expects to explore novel models of data governance, including radical, collective, self-governance models with sovereign nations, patient communities, and external sources.  

The thoughtful collection, sharing, and use of Open Data to advance HHS mission requires transparency in data governance that engenders trust by design, ensuring that the right people have access to the right data at the right time. Governance of data requires a close interplay between data sharing and access policies, the technologies that enable the management and sharing of data through secure infrastructures, and—most importantly—the people with equities.  

Included in these considerations for HHS are the responsible management and sharing of American Indians and Alaska Natives (AIAN) data, contributed from Federal, Tribal, and Urban Programs. As a model, Indigenous data are governed by and intrinsic to Indigenous Peoples’ capacity and capability to realize their human rights and reflect the crucial role of data in advancing Indigenous innovation and self-determination. The governance of these data has been articulated through the Collective Benefit, Authority to Control, Responsibility, and Ethics (CARE) principles[^83], which emphasize the need for tribal data sovereignty over access and future use, among other principles. NIH has acknowledged tribal sovereignty in policies governing sharing of scientific data[^84] and implemented a tribally governed data infrastructure[^85] that allows for federated tribal data sovereignty, giving each participating tribal community full control over the access and management of their data.  

Through its Tribal Data use case[^86], the HHS CDO and DGB are exploring how tribal data can be owned and controlled by tribes, while enabling responsible data sharing and use. For example, the Institutional Analysis and Development (IAD)[^87] framework emphasizes self-governance, community trust, and nested scales of decision-making. Used in natural resource management, IAD offers implementation best practices for empowering local communities through shared governance structures and the “co-creation” of policies with government. To ethically engage local, regional, and national stakeholders, the CARE principles coupled with IAD design principles may offer novel solutions rooted in Indigenous Data Sovereignty. The future of HHS Open Data must balance collective action, respect for individual sovereignty, and the equitable sharing of resources—treating data as a strategic asset and resource—while empowering communities to manage their data with agency, aligned to their unique needs and values.

[^83]: Carroll, S, et al. 2020. The CARE Principles for Indigenous Data Governance. Data Science Journal, 19: XX, pp. 1–12. DOI: <https://doi.org/10.5334/dsj-2020-042>
[^84]: <https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-22-214>
[^85]: Data for Indigenous Implementations Interventions and Innovation (D4I) is an NIH-funded award to the Native BioData Consortium. <https://d4itdr.org/>
[^86]: <https://cdo.hhs.gov/s/tribal-data>
[^87]: Ostrom, E. 2005. Understanding Institutional Diversity. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. DOI: <https://doi.org/10.1515/9781400831739>

[Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
